Added Explaination on Data Model (#8)
icure/medtech-docs: sdks/explanations/data-model/data-model-patient.md

---
slug: patient
tags:
    - data model
    - data owner
    - patient
---
# Patient

> A Patient is the subject of all the medical processes. They can be invited by Healthcare Professionals, who can also 
> associate Data Samples and Healthcare Elements to them.
> As a [Data Owner](/sdks/glossary#data-owner), a Patient can ask to access those data as well as creating Data Samples and
> Healthcare Elements by themselves.

Reviewer: This sounds like a Patient can only use iCure by invitation from healthcare professionals
```suggestion
A Patient is the subject of all the medical processes. They can register to iCure autonomously or be invited by Healthcare Professionals.
Healthcare professionals can associate Data Samples and Healthcare Elements to Patients.
Additionally, as [Data Owners](/sdks/glossary#data-owner) Patients can also ask to access this data or create
Data Samples and Healthcare Elements by themselves.
```

> ## When to Use a Patient?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When Should I Use a Patient?
```

You should use a Patient when you need to represent the recipient of the medical care in your application.

> ## How a Patient is Related to Other Entities?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How is a Patient Related to Other Entities?
```

A Healthcare Professional can create a Patient.  
A Patient can create Data Samples and Healthcare Elements.  
A Patient can ask to access a Data Sample or a Healthcare Element by creating a Notification to a Healthcare Professional.  

## Examples

### A Patient Registering Their Symptoms

> A Patient wants to add some symptoms she is experiencing (headache) by adding a new Data Sample.
> Then, she adds the information that her period started as a Healthcare Element associated to the Data Sample.

Reviewer: The example shows stuff the other way around: first create the healthcare element then create the data sample:
```suggestion
A Patient has a period tracking app and wants to register that her period started and that she is experiencing a headache.
She will create a Healthcare Element to register that her period started, then she will create a Data Sample associated to the Healthcare Element to register the headache.
```
